Intro and high level architecture (#3)
yaronf/wimse-s2s: draft-sheffer-wimse-s2s-protocol.md

# Introduction

This document defines authentication and authorization in the context of interaction between two workloads.
This is the core component of the WIMSE architecture {{?I-D.ietf-wimse-arch}}.

> Assume that Service A needs to call Service B. For simplicity, this document focuses on REST services,

Reviewer: I think we should stick to one term - either `workload` or `service`. Using these two interchangeably may confuse readers.

Author: Agreed.

Author: On second thoughts, even in the group charter we called it "service to service". I will let others chime in.

Reviewer 2: I'm in favor of switching to workload to workload vs service.  I feel that the workload term is more generic and its what we are using elsewhere.  I believe the way we are using the they are synonymous.

and the service-to-service call consists of a single HTTP request and its response.
We define the credentials that both services should possess and how they are used to protect the HTTP exchange.

There are multiple deployment styles in use today, and they result in different security properties.
We propose to address them differently.

* Many use cases have various middleboxes inserted between pairs of services, resulting in a transport layer
that is not end-to-end encrypted. We propose to address these use cases by protecting the REST messages at the application
level ({{app-level}}).

* The other commonly deployed architecture has a mutual-TLS connection between each pair of services. This setup
can be addressed by a simpler solution ({{mutual-tls}}).

> It is an explicit goal of this protocol that a service deployment, and in fact a single call chain,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is an explicit goal of this protocol that a service deployment can include both architectures across a multi chain call.
```
or do you indeed mean mTLS + TLS terminating middlebox? If that's the case I propose to rephrase the example to something like "TLS terminating middlebox + mTLS"

Author: I meant it exactly like you wrote it: a single multi chain call including both architectures. (Except that maybe the word "architecture" is a bit off here.)

one which is a profile of HTTP Message Signatures {{!RFC9421}}. The design team believes that we need to pick
one of these two alternatives for standardization, once we have understood their pros and cons.

## Deployment Architecture and Message Flow

Regardless of the transport between the workloads, we assume the following logical architecture:

~~~ aasvg
+------------+               +------------+
|            |               |            |
|            |               | Workload B |
| Workload A |==============>|            |
|            |               +------------+
|            |               |    PEP     |
+------------+               +------------+
      ^                            ^
      |                            |
      |                            |
      v                            v
+------------+               +------------+
|            |               |            |
|  Identity  |               |    PDP     |
|   Server   |               | (optional) |
|            |               |            |
+------------+               +------------+
~~~

> The Identity Server provisions credentials to each of the workloads. At least Workload A (and possibly both) must be provisioned

Reviewer: Reading this makes me feel like the arrow in above picture from Workload B <-> Identity Server is missing. Feel free to resolve if it's left out on purpose as it's optional.

Author: I omitted it for visual clarity more than anything else. I guess I should add it.

There's a related discussion that we haven't had yet on how much we want to protect the API response. If we decide to sign it then Service B absolutely needs an identity key.

with a credential before the call can proceed. Details of communication with the Identity Server are out of scope
of this document, however we do describe the credential received by the workload.

> PEP is a Policy Enforcement Point, the component that allows the call to go through or blocks it. PDP is an optional

Reviewer: This is very opinionated about authorization in my opinion. I propose to mention authz but not include it into the high level architecture. 
What do others think?

Author: In what way is this opinionated in your opinion? :-) All I'm saying is that Service B is expected to make/enforce an authz decision. I'm just using common terminology from the policy world to do it.

Reviewer: Let's discuss on Thursday. Resolving this for now to not block the PR.
